# Problem Description

**Leetcode Link:** [Koko Eating Bananas](https://leetcode.com/problems/koko-eating-bananas/)

**Solution Link:** [Neetcode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2SozAs9RzA&t=36s)

> Asked for my Round-3 technical round at ZopSmart

Koko loves to eat bananas. There are n piles of bananas, the ith pile has piles[i] bananas. The guards have gone and will come back in h hours.

Koko can decide her bananas-per-hour eating speed of k. Each hour, she chooses some pile of bananas and eats k bananas from that pile. If the pile has less than k bananas, she eats all of them instead and will not eat any more bananas during this hour.

Koko likes to eat slowly but still wants to finish eating all the bananas before the guards return.

Return the minimum integer k such that she can eat all the bananas within h hours.

Example 1:
```
Input: piles = [3,6,7,11], h = 8
Output: 4
```
Example 2:
```
Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 5
Output: 30
```
Example 3:
```
Input: piles = [30,11,23,4,20], h = 6
Output: 23
```

# Approach

- In the interview, I messed up big time and could think of only the brute force solution.
- We have `piles, h, k` variables where piles represents an array with n number of piles and some bananas in each pile represented by the number at the index.
- h is the number of hours koko has to eat all the piles of bananas
- k is the rate of bananas per hour koko can eat. We have a certain constraint where koko can't eat in 0.5 hours or any decimals. for ex, if there are 2 bananas in the pile and k = 4, potentially she could finish the pile in half an hour but that is not the case koko will eat it for the whole hour.
- we need to find a min k such that koko eats all the piles in exactly h hours.
- one thing was sure that we need to iterate over the piles array and check if the k is right, the problem here is the range of k.
- The end range can only be the max of the piles as that is the max koko can eat in an hour.
- The start range can have two options: as in the neetcode video we can take from 1 or we can take the `ceil(sum(piles) / h)` 
- We can take `ceil(sum(piles) / h)` because we can be sure that the minimum k required to finish all the piles in <= h hours would be the average.
- what i failed to notice was we are going from a start to end range, if you think of it is sorted, instead of searching linearly we can use binary search.

# Solution

**Time Complexity:** O(log(max(piles)) . n)

**Space Complexity:** O(1)

```python
left = ceil(sum(piles) / h)
right = max(piles)
res = right
while left <= right:
    k = (left + right) // 2
    hours = 0
    for p in piles:
        hours += ceil(p / k)
        if hours > h:
            break
    if hours <= h: # go left because k is more hence koko is eating faster.
        res = min(res, k)
        right = k - 1
    else: # go right bevause k is less hence koko is eating slower.
        left = k + 1
return res
```